Revisiting new exceptions flows (#3179)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/detections-ui-exceptions.asciidoc

[[detections-ui-exceptions]]
== Rule exceptions

> Rule exceptions can be associated with detection and endpoint rules to prevent those rules from generating alerts under specific circumstances. You can use exceptions to reduce the number of false positives, and to prevent trusted processes and network activity from generating unnecessary alerts.

Reviewer: Is there a difference between `false positives` and `alerts under specific circumstances`? I understand these two to be the same, if not similar. Correct me if I'm wrong. Optional suggestion:

```suggestion
You can associate rule exceptions with detection and endpoint rules to prevent trusted processes and network activity from generating unnecessary alerts, therefore, reducing the number of false positives. 
```

> Rule exceptions can be associated with detection and endpoint rules to prevent those rules from generating alerts under specific circumstances. You can use exceptions to reduce the number of false positives, and to prevent trusted processes and network activity from generating unnecessary alerts.

Author: False positive alerts can be generated under specific circumstances so the two are definitely related. I like the revision you suggested, @jmikell821. It keeps the important notice that trusted processes and network activity can sometimes generate unnecessary alerts (i.e., false positives).

When creating exceptions, you can assign them to <<rule-exceptions-intro,individual rules>> or to <<shared-exception-list-intro,multiple rules>>.

[float]
[[rule-exceptions-intro]]
=== Exceptions for individual rules

> Exceptions, also referred to as _exception items_, contain the source event conditions that determine when alerts should or shouldn't be generated. 

Author: Reapplying Ben's suggestion [here](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3179#discussion_r1191520580).

```suggestion
Exceptions, also referred to as _exception items_, contain the source event conditions that determine when alerts shouldn't be generated. 
```

> Exceptions, also referred to as _exception items_, contain the source event conditions that determine when alerts should or should not be generated. 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Slightly softer tone
```suggestion
Exceptions, also referred to as _exception items_, contain the source event conditions that determine when alerts should or shouldn't be generated. 
```

> Exceptions, also referred to as _exception items_, contain the source event conditions that determine when alerts should or should not be generated. 

Author: Yeah, this is a good point. Though exceptions can technically do both, the primary function of exceptions is to determine when alerts shouldn't be generated. The primary function of rules is to determine when alerts should be created.

cc: @yctercero

> You can create exceptions that apply exclusively to a single rule. These types of exceptions cannot be used by other rules and you must manage them from the rule’s details page. To learn more about creating and managing these types of exceptions, refer to <<add-exceptions>>.

Reviewer 3: We're hoping to be able to allow a user to manage them from the exceptions lists management page, but we're not there yet.

Author: Makes sense! Just to double-check, is there anything in this section that implies that users should go to the shared exception list page for managing exceptions? The reference in the last sentence points to [these docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/add-exceptions.html), which explain how to manage individual rule exceptions.

Reviewer 3: Nothing there implies managing them in the shared exception list page. I think it just made me recall that we hope to have that capability in the near future.

Author: Ah ok, cool. Thanks for clearing that up! I'll make a mental note of this and resolve this convo. Thanks!

> You can create exceptions that apply exclusively to a single rule. These types of exceptions cannot be used by other rules and you must manage them from the rule’s details page. To learn more about creating and managing these types of exceptions, refer to <<add-exceptions>>.

Reviewer 2: To avoid repeating "these types of exceptions"?
```suggestion
You can create exceptions that apply exclusively to a single rule. These types of exceptions can't be used by other rules, and you must manage them from the rule’s details page. To learn more about creating and managing single-rule exceptions, refer to <<add-exceptions>>.
```

Author: This is a google alternative. Thanks for the suggestion.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/exception-item-example.png[An exception item,90%]

NOTE: You can also use <<value-lists-exceptions,value lists>> to define exceptions for detection rules. Value lists allow you to match an exception against a list of possible values.

[float]
[[shared-exception-list-intro]]

> === Exceptions shared among multiple rules 

Reviewer 4: I love this update, so clear

> If you want an exception to apply to multiple rules, you can add an exception to a shared exception list. Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together and then associated them with multiple rules. Refer to <<shared-exception-lists>> to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want an exception to apply to multiple rules, you can add an exception to a shared exception list. Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together and then associate them with multiple rules. Refer to <<shared-exception-lists>> to learn more.
```
